>> Steve Kinney: Let's review for
a moment.
With the group, we can say that
if the parent is hovered, right,
we can style the children based on that.
With peer,
we can say the siblings afterwards.
And like I said before, for
the longest time that was all that
we had to work with as part of css,
thereby part of Tailwind.
We have a few new contenders
enter one of them is this has.
Let's call it a utility, right?
And as you can see at this point it is
safely supported for the last few years.
Unless you are, I'm sorry, IE11, right?
But you know, across the,
across the major browsers,
you know,
I like to pick on Opera Mini as well.
That is the.
I don't even know how much
usage it has anymore, but
that's when it would take
a screenshot of a web page.
So needless to say but at this point
support is pretty good for has.
And what HAS lets you do is basically
group was children based on
the parent state, right?
Has is parent based on the child state.
And so it allows an element
to basically query itself and
say if it has a given
selector that matches and
I will spoil the end of
this in the beginning.
Cause I think it's just important
to have the context which is if you
have group where a child can
ask about the parent and
you have has where a parent
can query its own children,
you can combine these and
do some really powerful things, right?
So let's kind of work through that
as we can kind of see things again.
I'll say this one more time.
We pretty sure this is true,
will not write a single line of
JavaScript in this entire workshop.
We definitely won't now because
I've said that enough times, but
I'm pretty sure we were
never going to yet.
We'll do things that previously we
probably have written JavaScript before
in our lives.
This is definitely one of them.
The actual, you know, pseudo selector
itself is incredibly powerful and
almost all of it you can do in
a single line in Tailwind, which is.
Opens up a lot of stuff but it's really
where we'll get to where it becomes really
interesting is when we can mix group and
has and sometimes peer and
there's one more called in and
another one called not.
Not is pretty self explanatory but
we'll look at it.
But by combining all these, there are a
whole bunch of things that you used to
need to use a certain amount of JavaScript
for that you no longer need to.
So let's go kinda take a look.
So here we've got that simple version
of checkbox that we did together.
The more complicated version
slightly that we did together.
But here you can see one of the first
times that this shows up right?
And this is effectively
like just a query selector,
like you would do with document
query selector before that,
jquery where you can say has and
then brackets are the arbitrary value
syntax in tailwind where you can just
plug in any valid CSS and it'll work.
So you can say, okay, if this parent
has an input in it that is checked,
then give us a green border and as input
check, give it a background green.
50.
So now we saw this was focus within.
Focus within was built in.
It would only work for focus though.
Now we say has, if this parent
has a checkbox that's checked,
turn that parent element green, right?
Then unchecked it goes back to the state
it was no longer do you have to add or
remove a class to the parent element based
on some value that you kept in state?
Literally, CSS will do all of
the heavy lifting for you.
You can imagine where this keeps going.
This means now let's say
a form has an invalid input of
any of the inputs you could
theoretically disable or
whatever the submit button with just
kind of pure css, so on and so forth.
So here's another one which is basically
like in this case, we can say for
each one of these, all right,
if this thing has an invalid input and
this one's invalid, not user invalid,
show a border red and
a background red and
if it's valid, turn it green.
So you can kind of see that automatically
again, 0 JavaScript being written, right?
I could say I don't make the rules on what
the browser considers to
be a valid email address.
That's what the browser considers.
I don't know that you could just
do it solely a tld maybe you can.
I don't know.
So now you can say that even on focus
the state is true cuz it is again querying
itself, right?
No use state valid based on regex or
whatever.
This is a password field that has.
I believe I put a pattern
property on here.
Let's see.
What did I do this one?
I did not put a pattern property, but
theoretically do a valid or invalid.
So this one, the entire thing is going
to change if this one has focus,
you could do this with
focus within as well.
But so has basically gives you ability for
any given parent to run any query on.
Theoretically you can also do
peers as well with it, right?
Because you can do in css you can
do with the hashtag selector me and
then the next element or
something like that as well.
But Pyrrho will do that for you as well.
But the important,
I think the more powerful one for
our purposes is this ability for
again the parent to style itself based
on the status of any of its children.
And so tons of different places
examples that you can do this and
then a freebie because there are some
things that I don't think needed
their own section, so
I just decided to sprinkle them in.
So yeah, you can do hasvalid or invalid or
has focus which is very
much like focus within.
In fact you could theoretically
do has input focus visible and
get that feature that we joked
about should exist later.
The other fun thing that you can do
in any given point is if you put
transition colors,
it'll automatically add a transition
property to fade between colors.
For all the different things
you can transition between css,
you can add one class and now your button
will transition from one blue to the other
as you hover in a nice smooth way as well.
Here's another example where we
want to say has input checked
because radio buttons
also count as checked.
If they're selected,
we want to change the entire element.
Again, you could always
do this in JavaScript.
Who wants to?
Especially because effectively this is
really one line of tailwind at this point.
I mean, I guess we changed both
the border and a few other things and
we give it a shadow.
I was feeling feeling
saucy at that moment.
So now if I select any of these,
you can see that the entire para element
changes based on whether or not it has
a radio button that is in fact checked.
Again, taking a whole bunch of JavaScript
you could have written previously
because you're like,
I've seen this pattern before.
Yeah, but
there was JavaScript doing it and
now it is effectively like 20 characters
of a class name in tailwind as well.
So there are some other
interesting things you can do.
What did I try to do here?
So this is has the checkbox, or
has anyone that's checked they turn green,
or
I make it lighter if any
of the boxes are checked.
You can see I can change
stuff based on whether or
not anything selected.
In this case, I was just being silly
At a certain point, any given one,
anything that's a selector
you can find in here as well.
So if has- a select that has focus,
turn the border pink, right?
Why would you do that?
I don't know.
Just trying to show off the like that
you can basically do any selector that
you could possibly want doing here and
begin to build out stuff as well.
But where I think it becomes really kind
of powerful as this is kind of cool.
Like if it has detail summary,
has an open and close property so
you can effectively change the styling
on it whether or not it's open or not.
There's some other ways to do
some stuff like that as well.
But what I keep trying to scroll
down to get to, but I kept writing
more examples for reasons I don't
remember, is matching that with group.
There's one more I wanna show you.
This is also important.
This is why I take notes, right?
So I don't forget stuff.
So you can do it based on whether
something's focused or checked,
any pseudo selector, right?
But you can also change stuff based
on what other elements are in there.
Because if you can look for
an input that's checked,
you can also just look for an input.
Which means if you, let's say previously
you're like, hey, I have this card.
Sometimes it takes an image.
Maybe prior in whatever your client side
framework of choice is, you'd be like,
okay, if image, then actually change
the padding and make it a Flexbox.
If no image, whatever, right here you
can say something like just simply,
hey, if it has an image in it,
make it a flexbox, right?
And so the act of it having a certain,
having a certain element in it will
actually change the layout
of the component.
No JavaScript required.
A place where I have used
this before is I had to
build a card where it's like
if it has a link in it,
we want to show a little arrow in the
upper right corner that it goes somewhere.
And if the card has no link in it,
it should be styled differently.
That was a feature that I had
to write in JavaScript and
now a single CSS selector
gets us there as well.
So we saw the form validation as well.
And so you can say this label, we're using
the child version, so on and so forth.
Where I think it gets really interesting
is and this is what I was looking for,
group has, right?
So like I said before, has lets
a parent query about his children.
Group lets children change their
styling based on the parent.
Adding those two together means
that you can do stuff where
it's like remember up here we couldn't
do a previous element, right?
But we can say, hey parent,
if you have an invalid input in it,
maybe we want to turn the label red.
It becomes a bunch of really powerful
stuff that we can do in this case.
Like I said, we can change the label or
something like that.
We can be able to go bidirectionally up
and down and figure out if the parent has
anything in this, then I want to
be styled in a particular way.
Let's take a look at some ways
that we can build that and
then we'll do an exercise and
try it on our own.
But let's see how we're feeling.